# FASTA-file-info-extraction

This is the final project for Module 2: Python for Genomic Data Science, which is part of the Genomic Data Science Specialization offered by Johns Hopkins University.  

This program reads in a user-provided FASTA file (multiple sample files included) and starts by recording the number of sequences in the file and their lengths, and then finds the longest sequence in the file and the shortest sequence in the file. It then parses through and stores the identifier of each sequence. 

THe first defined function is called "get_orfs", which takes two arguments: (1) The sequence(s) from the FASTA file and (2) the reading frame the user wishes to investigate (1, 2 or 3). This fuction finds all open reading frames (ORFs) in each sequence in the file. The reading frame, whose offset is 0 (reading frame 1), +1 (reading frame 2) or +2 (reading frame 3) determines the starting point. It is important to note that this function only investigates ORFs on the positive DNA strand. For each pass through each sequence, the start position, end position, ORF length, and sequence index are stored in a tuple. These values can be extracted to determine which sequence has the longest ORF and match it's identifier. Next, the user is prompted to enter in a number, ranging between 1 and the number of sequences, to investigate the ORFs in that specific sequence. If the sequence chosen does not have any ORFs, the user will be continually prompted until a sequence that does have at least one ORF is chosen. The program will then return the length of that sequence's longest ORF and it's respective start and end position. 
The call for this function prompts the user to pick which reading frame they would like to investigate, 1, 2, or 3. 

The second defined function is called "get_repeats". This function finds all repeats (including overlaps) in each sequence in the FASTA file given a length "n", which the user provides. These values are stored in a dictionary using the "Counter" method. This function returns the repeat that occured the most in all the sequences. This function only takes two arugments: (1) The sequences from the FASTA file and (2) the user-provided repeat length. 
